hello mr mc fund agains  just wondering what your beef is with a  basil emcee funda seal why you've never  had debates with him or anything  um  [Music]  i don't know exactly where the beef i  have without a seal started but  um where we really  uh  got on  a bad  you know footing um  is when he was lying about  me in possession of having firearms  he was partly responsible for getting  me doxxed and having the police  break down my door  uh we weren't on good terms  then but that's when we really  became enemies  what richard is half remembering half  hallucinating about here  is a video you can still find on my  channel  titled  quote  i reported vegan gains to the police  close quote and if you just read the  first sentence of the description below  the video  it says  i received an email from the person who  reported vegan gains to the police  i received an email from someone who is  ostensibly if not actually the person  who turned vegan gains into the cops  and who made richard's life miserable  for a couple of years there so i  received this email a couple of years  ago  and everything about this email  i'm gonna read it to you  is  believable  not everyone is cursed with an accurate  memory for these things within my own  family and within the strange cloud of  colleagues and ex-girlfriends i have  most of the people who've known me for  many years are really astonished that i  can remember things they said to me  five years ago 10 years ago  even 30 and 40 years ago  with remarkable accuracy if you have  that kind of memory for conversations  you've had for personal interactions in  your life  it is a bit of a curse you have to make  an extra effort to really be warm and  forgiving and understanding towards  people because  you remember exactly what they said it  may just be that richard can't remember  what happened  three four years ago or going back more  like six seven years ago but it may also  be this situation in which he remembers  the title of that video or his wife has  only seen the title of the video and  never clicked on the video  maybe his wife made up a story in her  own mind or she's been pestering him  and he now remembers the story she keeps  telling  which is this claim that i was somehow  involved with  calling the police or doxing him  but the opposite is true  that video  was recorded after he had had this  encounter with the police i knew nothing  about it in advance i wasn't involved in  any way i just received an email from  someone who claimed they were involved i  have no way to verify that claim and i  made a video discussing some of the  ethical and philosophical implications  of the situation i didn't have a lot of  hope that richard would would get better  i mean i  i haven't feel bad i had no hope  um richard would improve  um  maybe i mean i was going to say that's  another reason not to bother criticizing  him when you really just feel there's no  chance this person is going to improve  in any way then what's the point you  know ultimately the main thing i felt  for richard was was pity  um  and you know then after a certain point  in terms of people have asked me  sincerely enough why did you guys stop  being friends  and i think the truth is richard really  can't stand talking to anyone who  challenges his opinion of himself  and you know he really thinks he's a  genius he really thinks he's someone  with extraordinarily high  intelligence the same way that back when  he was an ice hockey player he thought  he had superhuman strength you guys may  have heard him describing that you know  on his own channel  um  you know  and  he blames everyone else for his failures  and shortcomings except himself he  doesn't take responsibility for anything  he is not interested in growing up he's  not interested in improving he's not  even interested in improving  as a filmmaker  so yeah i mean i i can't say that the  criticism of him was ever lacking on  this channel  um i remember very clearly putting up a  criticism that had clips of that video  that video he can't remember  he just can't remember what's in it that  um that youtube flagged him for  well i i remember i just had to appear  in court um  the stupid thing with the police and  them trying to ban me from owning any  weapons  that's still going on  um  problem is i'm still waiting for the  psychiatric assessment from the uh  psychiatrist so that's the video i put  up clips of where i was directly warning  him i was directly speaking to richard  in the audience and saying look this is  you  he was unloading bags and boxes of  weapons on camera  and making  unsavory remarks while he did it  you know what are you trying to do do  you want do you want to be do you want  to be a leader in the vegan movement do  you want to be a comedian do you want to  be a filmmaker do you want to be a  bodybuilding coach you know i don't care  you can be anything you can go of course  one of the first conversations i had  with him was you can go back to school  and get a degree in nutrition or  something nutritional science you could  go back and get these credentials in  canada it's pretty straightforward and  it's pretty affordable it's much easier  than the united states america or  some other countries  and he didn't want any of that  he wanted to do  whatever he wanted to do whenever he  wanted to do it  and he did not want to listen to anyone  else's opinion anyone who would have  contrasted about anything  and you guys already know the reason the  reason he said to me why he cut off all  friendship and contact with me  was because of what i said against  racism  and you know  richard's canadian richard comes from  toronto canada  he grew up in the shadow of genocide the  same history of the british empire and  genocide that i grew up in  i have a lot of videos on this channel  talking about cree ojibwe  mohawk  indigenous languages the importance of  that in understanding current politics  of canada and history canada i don't  know to what extent it's that element of  racism and anti-racism and i don't know  to what extent it's just his personal  connection to certain far right-wing  figures like  cory mccarthy and tara mccarthy  i don't know  and i don't care america was founded by  whites  little things of like you know people  you know claiming that oh well then what  are you doing in america because you  know that wasn't your homeland et cetera  we came we have the ability  the better man wins  that's how it works and you know it's  supposed to have evolution exactly  whereas in africa it's literally like  the most violent man gets the most women  you know in these kind of situations  um so they just have not evolved in the  same way that we have corey mccarthy is  a white supremacist in the strictest  sense of the term he and his girlfriend  are both white supremacists they are  pro-genocide pro-empire pro-slavery when  it's white people doing the enslaving  and for some reason not when it's the  other way around they are the worst kind  of racists and apologists for the worst  tendencies within 21st century fascism  guess what there are some  well-intentioned black people like  richard known as vegan gains who are  apologists for his channel if the native  population of a territory we went into  uh was capable of defeating us we would  have been defeated we would have left  you know it wouldn't have worked out  very well but you know the only reason  we were able to do it is because why why  why we could [ __ ] please and even to  this day you find a lot of like medical  research and uh is being conducted also  in america and australia and why would  that be think about that because the r1b  haplogroup then was sent over to those  two places they're colonies just look at  every single civilized country in the  world  um aside from the east asians which are  kind of like a separate issue that we  could talk about another time i don't  really need to go into it  um  they're all colonized by white people  you know you were i know you can't help  being born under in a specific country  with a specific you know a specific race  or a specific iq or whatever you know  but the thing is like let's say you're  born with an 85 iq  just like somebody who's born with a  two-inch dick  just like somebody who's born with a  two-inch dick that's like i'm sorry you  got the shin of the stick i mean  what you can't really do anything about  it but you know  you know blacks get on  wipes for slavery they want reparations  for it when in fact blacks were selling  their own kind into slavery to whites  and to the middle east oh the only  reason that we could conquer them was  because they were such peaceful people  no a lot of them were cannibals a lot of  them were doing human sacrifices  scabbing people's hair off scale you  know they were committing genociding in  their own little groups  um these these weren't just a savage  people you know and that's what they  called routinely savages and that's what  they were when we turned up cory is not  a supremacist [ __ ] please  hey  can't you just tell me what's for  breakfast there are some  well-intentioned black people like  richard known as vegan gaines who are  apologists for his channel do you know  what the knock-on effects of that are  idiots idiots like ask yourself aka  isaac brown isaac a nice little white  boy from southern ontario he's probably  met three black people in his whole  [ __ ] life says oh well it's okay if  he goes ahead and makes excuses for a  white supremacist because vegan gains is  doing it that really is the problem with  black people who try to be nice who try  to make excuses for white people who  make excuses for genocide colonialism  slavery racism and white supremacism  that's what happens okay  my principle here is don't make excuses  for people who make excuses  um he's an idiot  he's a really dumb guy  i'd like to debate him jasmine doesn't  want me to though because again he uh  he's partly to blame for the doxing  richard if you're listening to this  remember  when i interviewed you  more than five years ago  you told me  that your house had been searched you  told me  that you had legal trouble with the  police  and i was astonished  that's when i first  heard  about your trouble with the police was  when you told me  during that interview so richard if you  can remember  you can remember how surprised i was and  how i reacted when we had that  conversation  and then you can also  remember the gap chronologically between  when that happened  and when you're claiming  i somehow called the cops  semo had your house searched started  this saga with your gun possession  problems  or somehow doxed you chronologically  what you're saying richard it doesn't  make sense ostensibly this is an account  from the perspective of the person who  made the decision to report richard to  the toronto police department that led  to a series of investigations and  charges that led to richard having to  attend several court dates  at the time i received this message  years ago  it's not that i took it  any less seriously than i do today  however the question in my mind was to  what extent when we see richard on  camera  are we seeing an actor  in a comedy playing a fictional  character and to what extent are we  seeing the real man it becomes clear i  think everyone who's known the guy even  if you've just known him via facebook  and and what have you  i think it becomes clear to everyone  that it's not an act that it's not a  joke  and my charitable assumption that he was  a fictional character  in a kind of long-running series of  jokes of his own devising  is uh  is not true at all you know i i had a  bunch of people react very positively to  a simple and blunt statement i made on  twitter to paraphrase i said the other  day  the current content from vegan gains has  zero educational value and zero  entertainment value  if i wanted to hear someone sit there  and call somebody a dumb [ __ ] and a  dumb [ __ ] if that was the level of  analysis i was interested in  i would watch cnn  when i first talked about richard on  this channel  i don't know how many years ago years  ago when i first talked about richard on  youtube i did assume that a lot of his  violent act was a joke  like when he talked about wanting to  kill children and then babies when he  made these kinds of really i assumed was  real and now i know it's not a joke i  have a daughter  i have sent richard's photographs you  know again i don't know a year ago  whatever it was you know not recently um  i've sent him photographs of me with my  daughter me visiting me on vacation  visiting my daughter right the way i do  with  friends  i send friends photos of me and my  daughter and you know what he writes  back  um absolutely confirms that no what what  he's been saying about himself is not a  joke it's literally true  he has behaviors and beliefs and violent  attitudes towards children  towards people  that you know  that could get you put into lunatic  asylum and that could certainly get you  investigated  by the toronto police department who  comes on youtube to talk about politics  and philosophy this way  people who don't have a better  alternative and that's the other thing  with i mean it's true of vegan gains  it's true if you're looking at someone  like jake paul  like jake paul and these other youtubers  like look i look at these these crappy  mainstream youtube religious policy look  when you first started if this was the  only content you could do is filming  yourself doing a spontaneous dumb prank  and screaming into the camera and this  this kind of these kinds of antics fine  but now you have an audience of millions  you have a lot of income coming in  you've got to progress you've got to  step it up with vegan gains it's it's  more unforgivable because this guy at  this point highly successful  earning a living earning a significant  living from this  and he is not putting in the effort to  progress beyond a level a level that  would be shameful even for like the  amazing atheist or jacqueline glenn and  these other crap  you know you do not put that much that  much effort you know into youtube you  know vegan gains is is in a  he's in a real position of power if  anything he's the new free league he's  in the position was in  and yeah you know what it's exactly  parallel i didn't even think of that the  guy who said to me today  that he feels ashamed to use the word  vegan and he wishes he wasn't in the  same category of veganism that's like  coming full circle to about four years  ago where people said that about freely  and people said that about durianrider  because they were dragging the name of a  vegas into the mud  um  [Music]  i don't know exactly where the beef i  have without a best lucille started but  he was partly responsible for getting  me doxxed and having the police  break down my door  we weren't on good terms  then but that's when we really  became  enemies so now you've heard richard's  account  of how from his perspective  we became enemies  but from my perspective  we never became enemies at all  i'm someone who criticized him  and that critique  with time  started to resemble  absolute condemnation  why  what changed  the very thing  being criticized  changed and became worse and worse  and so too  my condemnation of it became harsher and  harsher and i with everyone else  learned  gradually  who richard really was  and so my criticism of him as a person  also became more and more  a condemnation of his character  there is no happy ending to this video  people  talent is scarce  and uh you know if you want to see  somebody do better  take a look in the mirror because the  future of veganism is you and you and  you and if you want better youtube  content that i've been able to produce  in my five years of playing this game  the alternative it's not richard it's  not complaining about richard the  alternative is you and you and you